Following a pair of last-second launch aborts over two days, the third attempt worked for SpaceX on Wednesday as it blasted a large commercial communications satellite into orbit without a hitch.
The evening blastoff, which occurred without any countdown delays or technical problems from Florida's Kennedy Space Center, avoided a repeat of the automated safety warnings that scrubbed previous launch attempts Sunday and Monday just seconds before the rocket's main engines were set to ignite.
The flight of the Falcon 9 rocket carrying a 7.5-ton satellite into a high-earth orbit for Intelsat SA was the third successful mission in less than two weeks for Elon Musk's Space Exploration Technologies Corp., as the closely held Southern California company is formally called. It is also believed to be the heaviest payload Mr. Musk's team has ever put into space.
Roughly three minutes into the flight, the rocket's lower stage separated and the upper stage's engine ignited as planned. Some five minutes later, the upper engine shut down as the satellite continued on its way.
Rebounding from launch delays stemming from two Falcon 9 explosions spanning 2015 and 2016, SpaceX is seeking to reassure commercial and U.S. government customers that it is safely ramping up its launch tempo. The company has targeted for later this year the initial flight of its Falcon Heavy rocket, a Falcon 9 derivative featuring 27 main engines and roughly twice the lifting capacity of SpaceX's current fleet of boosters.
Wednesday's mission was the 10th successful launch of a Falcon 9 this year, already beating SpaceX's previous record of eight launches in 2016.
With some $10 billion in launch business on its books, including contracts from the Pentagon and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, SpaceX has set the pace for the budding commercial space industry. But in addition to its swift growth and lofty ambitions -- including a manned flyby of the moon as early as next year -- the company is renowned for a scrappy attitude and nimble engineering culture that is determined to make decisions more quickly than legacy competitors or government agencies.
Before the end of the decade, company officials hope to routinely launch at least one SpaceX rocket every week.